---
layout: post
title: oppenheimer
tags: nuclear oppenheimer film post-war cold-war
date: 2023-08-06
---

From the *Unspent Rounds* podcast and a good conversation about Oppenheimer and post-war (ie pre cold war) policy, and the process of imagination taking place at the highest levels of government and the military. 

https://warontherocks.com/episode/unspent-rounds/29225/oppenheimer-an-expansive-imagination-and-nuclear-weapons/

> I do want to tee you up, because i agree that period from 45 to 49, where everyone is trying to figure out what to do with what they just did in American history and the mirror image of that is the Soviet programme and how that was so much driven by Stalin and his paranoia... Talk about Oppenheimer at his political peak and his moral quibbles shaped how he thought about the opening of a nuclear era

> What I find interesting about the post-war period is basically end of WW2 until everyone agrees we're in a cold war. Around 1949/1950. Term Cold War is coined in '45 by George Orwell. This period is often called the Post War, to differentiate it from the Cold War. What I like is there's a sense that nobody knows what's going to happen. There's this tremendous imagination about what the future is going to look like or what these weapons and the world situation dictate about what needs to change right *now* especially if you want to avoid one of those awful futures. Vannevar Bush, he wrote a memo to the secretary of war, he said there are two paths. There are only two options in his imagination, in itself an interesting limitation, but this is endemic to a lot of how people were seeing it. either you go down this pathway of secret arms races where there is no limitation on who is making nuclear weapons. Every nation starts racing towards them. Down that path they think it's inevitable, eventually you run that timeline out, that nuclear war happens. WW2 looks like nothing compared to that in their mind. Or you have this pathway where we have to organise the entire world system. Or you go down this other path, which is radically re-shaping the world around avoiding nuclear war. What does that look like? They don't know, but they're trying to imagine, what would that look like. This is one of hte things that Oppenheimer is totally obsessed with towards the end of WW2 and plays a major role during the post war in shepherding through, this international control of atomic energy. Could you use the UN to ban nuclear weapons in a verifiable, effective and practical way? What would that even look like? Can you imagine signing on to that? What would it take? And the answer turns out to  be 'no' not in that time period based on complicated things. but i think this is a really fascinating period. the imagination here stretches from the apocalyptic to world government and total peace forever, and those are the poles. there is not a lot of sensibility that you can have anything between. That you could have something like the world you have ended up in. Not the best but not the worst. i love that these imaginationings, are not limited to fringe people, it is top level officials in many countries and many advisors and smart people. that's a really exciting thing. By the time you get to the cold war the imagination decreases pretty dramatically. It becomes pretty rigid what you think the possible futures are. And there's not as much variance in that. to me this is why it's unfortunate they cut this from the movie, because it seems to put the cold war on rails when even the military was thinking about banning nuclear weapsons. that's amazing to contemplate in retrospect that option was out there. whether that's best or not who knows, but it's fascinating to me.It's remarkable that you go from late '38 the discovery of a new scientific phenomena, table top science, and within six years you're talking about how this science means you have to reorganise all of international relations or else we'll die, and that doesn't happen previously in human history, it has really not happened quite htat swiftly with anything else in history. Bruno Latour, one of the ways he talked about science and what makes it interesting especially in politics, it's one of the rare sources of fresh power. You have all these entrenched political organisations, scientific discovery can lead you to places where suddenly a guy like Oppenheimer, a theoretical physicist, who couldn't run a hamburger stand, is one of hte top advisors to people going to the UN. That's something that science can do almost uniquely and it's hard to do anywhere else in human activity.  
